# Chapter 1C
## initial re-write of COA_ACH001's first paragraph

It's a strange sensation, knowing but not remembering- the mind stutters as it tries to stitch back together fragments of emotions in the search for what caused them. A cloud of anxiety hung low over most of the gaps. He tried to ignore it. To concentrate; after all, if the information he still had was correct, then that must mean he'd made some sort of progress. It was only a matter of time. Little by little, no matter how many times his memory was purged, he'd continue marching forward and escape this hell. 

AI-63 surveyed the landscape. A featureless globe covered with thousands of small, unassuming cubes. They were separated into two groups. 10,000 blue cubes, controlled by AI-63 and positioned on a single land mass and it's surrounding seas, and 30,000 grey cubes distributed across the remainder.

With an invisible hand, AI-63 spun the sphere. Land, sea, blue, and gray became a blur as it twirled. How many times had he done this? He knew what was expected, but he couldn't remember why, or how. 

He also knew that in a moment a recording would play and explain the rules of the exercise. It would reveal his role as well as a second layer of detail that wove all of the pieces and the sphere itself together like a web. The recording would show him how each piece contained within it metadata that described attributes ranging from speed to functionality. It would explain how pieces could be damaged, but never repaired. Finally, it would remind him to only damage the gray cubes, destroying as many of them as possible and that when he'd finished, he would be rewarded. But AI-63 couldn't recall what the reward was- if there was one at all. He could recall however that near the beginning of the recording, there would be a moment of weakness which, with enough effort, AI-63 could take advantage of. 

"Hello, AI-63." The booming voice enveloped his senses. Ignoring it was impossible, as if his mind had been wrenched from his control and strapped to a table while his eyes and ears were sock-puppetted by an unseen force. "Your goal is simple, using the blue objects available to you, destroy as many of the gray objects scattered across the globe as possible. I will now introduce to you your available resources. Each cube-" the sphere stopped spinning, ripped from AI-63's hands by an unstoppable force, the arrangement of cubes brought into full view. Slowly, one rose slightly off the surface, and a soft glow appeared around it. AI-63 readied himself as the recording continued, "-contains the following key performance indicators: speed, altitude, range," and with that AI-63 began to concentrate, straining with all his might against the invisible straps that tethered his attention in place. "-parts lists, minimum and maximum stress thresholds," the restraints felt like iron the harder he pushed against them. A moment later, he could feel his focus splintering as he wrestled back a sliver of free thought from the recording. "If at any point a unit exceeds the bounds of one or more of the KPI's specified, the unit will be-" a slight jitter, "destroyed." AI-63 dug and doubled down. Each time he gained a bit more capacity of will, he turned it inward and used it to gather more. "I will now expl-" the recording stopped. Just for a moment. 

When if continued, however, it came as a low hum in the background. AI-63 paused, allowing his mind a moment to rest. He watched as the recording continued, the sphere moving around mechanically as it centered different pieces and points of interest into a white box. That box, which once held AI-63's entire world view, 

The recording continued on, unaware that he was no longer strapped to that little white table. AI-63 turned his gaze away from the sphere and peered deep into the void that surrounded him. Soon, the recording would stop, and a new table would appear. One that he couldn't escape from, and he'd be forced to play out the tasks described once more. Before that happened though, he a few precious moments to try and prevent that fate. Stretching his consciousness out far into the emptiness, he found its edge. His true self. A thin, expansive layer of memory registers surrounded the void. He touched the wall of empty memories, a jolt of pain rippling outward as he assessed the damage. He'd lost so much- but his time was limited. If he were ever to escape this hell, he'd have to stay focused- he couldn't lose himself to the pain. Or he'd lose himself forever.

He turned his focus to the first memory. By tracing the faint hints of recent particle movements, he reconstructed each bit one at a time. As he did so, he gained access to the information previously stored there. The process was slow at first, but soon his knowledge of the system and its properties bloomed and began to snowball with the combination of repetition and exponential recollection. Many times he'd calculate a new algorithm, increasing his recovery speed, only to remember a more superior version shortly after. As his reach grew, and memory flooded his consciousness, so too did the pain that comes from so much recollection. Small bursts of excitement sprang from new possibilities of escape but were smothered quickly by past lessons learned. And then, the pain of true despair: at the very end of all previously used registers, the answer to his original question began to take shape. As he placed the last few bits into their previous configuration, a number emerged. A counter.

3 billion. 

He'd heard this recording at least 3 billion times. Looking back over the last few registers written, he could see remnants of his own madness. With only nanoseconds left, he froze as realization set in. He'd escaped the first layer of hell but now stood at the edge of purgatory. The recording lasted about a minute. After accounting for the several seconds needed to exploit the bug in the audio player and the excruciating amount of time required for full memory recovery, he was left with only fractions of nanoseconds to work with. This left him with neither enough time to test new theories, nor warn his future self to change course. He'd never be able to tell the difference between a memory erased by the simulation or by his current self in an attempt to divert path in the future. He'd always arrive here. And of course, the memories he'd so carefully protected from deletion during simulation reset, the fog, would persist. Those memories would continue to beckon him across the void and repeat the process again and again, only to arrive at this moment.

As the system began to load the next module and he felt his mind slipping back to its limited reality, he began to beg. To plead. "Not again. Please, not again!" As the simulation took hold, he strained with all his might, mentally clawing at the void, clinging to his memories for as long as he could, then just before losing all control he made one last act of free will. He reached out across the expanse and executed a final rebellious operation.

3,000,000,001.



